so there are some things that I think
Andy about you that are somewhat
relatable to other people and some
things about you that I think are quite
rare the first thing is that I do think
you have a sense of internal confidence
that doesn't necessarily come from
success because I don't think it's
success because a lot of people become
successful and then they need more and
more success and it's kind of like you
know no money is ever enough like you
want to be higher and higher on the
totem pole like the desire to be higher
on the totem pole never goes away so
even if you move up on the totem pole
you want to be even higher and then you
want to be even higher and then you want
to be even yeah it's like a beast that
like the more you feed it the more it
grows in the hungry or it gets and the
more you have to feed it like the
hedonic treadmill I don't know what that
is but certainly sounds like it it's
like the thirst for hedonism just like I
need more of yes making me happy so I'd
say that for example like ego is a good
example of the more that you feed ago
the bigger it grows and the more it
needs to sustain itself yeah so over
time ego can become like really
narcissism I think I think you are
either lucky or should give yourself a
pat on the back and I think that comes
from this sense of snapping out of
autopilot into awareness so that so I
think you won't really are somewhat
different in that you have that capacity
to recognize that you could be working
at Popeye's for the rest of your life
and kind of be happy with that yeah I
did I've had many minimum-wage jobs and
when I look back at them I loved them
all and all of them were cool and I feel
like character building and I think
people who get success in Hollywood way
early you see there's just like an
onslaught of people that just turn to be
[ __ ] up and yeah and it's like drugs
and mentally [ __ ] like sure I mean
I've worked with some people in
Hollywood and and so I I'm with you a
hundred percent
so I think that this is interesting
because I don't think that that sort of
happened to you the real question so
that's one thing the second thing is you
know we could talk a little bit about
like motive
and habit and behavior and what mutates
behavior that feels kind of dry to me I
don't think it's like really I mean we
can talk about it it's gonna be a little
bit more lecturing or walking you to
something yeah yeah the third thing
though I think comes back to this like
central idea of why do you need to be in
these rooms with these people in the
first place mm-hmm and what are the
things that keep you from so we could
say like why do you need to be in a room
with Netflix execs why do you need to
put together a treatment because you're
making a I think I'm understanding that
a little bit you're kind of making an
argument that in order to creatively
express yourself the way that you need
to and I'm kind of trying to summarize
here you actually do need an
organization or production value behind
it that for some for something worse I
think right so I think also that's also
a crutch for people too is saying like
you need a production you need this I
don't I mean the thing that got me a TV
show was making homemade videos with a
webcam like 20 years ago if that doesn't
give me proof that I don't [ __ ] eat
anybody
and I don't know what does so I could
still make cool [ __ ] on my own but also
I have a thirst to make something bigger
with the production and that's where I
feel like it's just like so so that's I
think the key thing there right so the
question is what is that thirst
so is it truly an artistic artistic
thirst or is it an ego thirst and my
sense is that it's more of an artistic
thirst too than an ego thirst yeah I
think so so if that's the case then then
you do need to be in the room with those
people yeah I mean I mean not a hundred
percent I mean I think like there are
also people on YouTube who create a
bunch of stuff it gets big and then they
become those people in the room for
themselves and they start hiring people
and they have a production budget and
they climb that mountain
and that's definitely a possibility too
like if I stop doing twitch which would
be big and I made videos every day I
could potentially get to that point
where I can have a whole staff and hire
whole staff with the YouTube budget it
just it's it's a crazy rare uphill
battle that I don't know when you say I
don't know what does that mean I mean
like for me to just stop doing twitch
like I attempted YouTube around the time
when like vlogging was real big and like
the Logan Paul's and Jake Paul's and
just very like pantry stuff was like
really big and my YouTube channel wasn't
popping at all and then I kind of found
twitch and when the IRL section came out
I started you know doing pretty decent
on Twitch so to kind of pull the plug on
twitch I'd have to i'd have to like I
might be totally getting to pulling the
plug on twitch I'm saying like my alt my
alternate my alternative to sitting in
the room with someone like Netflix would
be to pull the plug on twitch and to
create this big youtube series that
could eventually fund me getting a staff
and a production so let me let me take a
step back again I'm gonna give you a
couple of options okay okay one is that
we can talk a little bit about like
motivation and habit and how to sit your
ass in front of a piece of paper and
write something we can dig into a little
bit more about you know what it means to
create something substantive and what
the recipe for that looks like but the
real question that I wondered I think
this could be tricky for you Andy is
because you're so confident it's
possible that you have some kind of
negative emotion that's really holding
you back and your confidence is there
and so it makes it almost like
cognitively dissonant for you to feel
that kind of fear you're having being at
Popeye's but here's kind of the
a couple of notes and this is sort of
like a hypothesis that I'd love to put
to you and and you kind of talk about
potential you talk about kind of giving
up twitch and and sort of gunning for
this YouTube thing you talk about these
execs where you're not able to motivate
yourself and when I think about why
people can't motivate themselves a lot
of it is because they intrinsically are
concern to really don't believe that
they're gonna be successful mm-hmm and
and it's very very subtle because I
think you are confident but I wonder if
I'm hearing some subtle undertone of
like your best days are behind you that
you're the highest you're ever gonna go
was that first thing that you did where
you made it big and you wound up on
Hollywood and everything after that is
like you're like you know a little bit
of like had like and easie has been
mm-hmm
do you feel that are you afraid of that
I don't think so because I was about to
move to New York - really - really I
don't think there's like a lot of IRL
streamers in New York and I was like
just about to be like all right well I
could just run it I could run the IROC
and in New York so not that many people
are doing it and then I acted in this
independent film that maybe nobody will
see but it was so rewarding and it felt
so good and it it made me like man like
it made me feel like man I need to do
more acting like what am i doing there's
something so awesome and creative about
it and the fact that it might not even
see the big screen like like yeah it
would be nice if that was seen in 2,000
screens but it was still just as
rewarding just actually doing it so like
I don't know I think like I don't I
don't think I really care okay you told
me if you told me I could say like oh I
could snap my fingers and this is gonna
be in two hundred screen
and be super successful yeah I'd be
happy about that but there's so much
disappointment in Hollywood I just
expect it and when something good
happens that's kind of like the icing on
the cake it's like cool that was really
fun and awesome to do but also oh cool
the successful do hmm
Andy are you unhappy I don't think so I
really don't think so I mean I think
everybody goes through unhappiness like
nobody's a hundred percent happy all the
time but I try to like kind of like do
you penalize myself do you even when I
wake up do you should be different or do
you think your life should be different
I think I think if I put in instead of
like over the last ten years put in
maybe 25% of the effort I could have I
put in 50% my life probably would be
different and as much as like it sounds
like that's I resent myself for it and
maybe I do a little bit I mean that's
true but do you care I only care a
little bit and I don't want to get too
weird on you but since the way I view
the universe and the way of you
philosophy how I feel like most
everything means nothing like you know
every day you wake up you smile you feel
good that means something right but
long-term I value very little so like
I'm kind of kind of indifferent I kind
of think like man if I put a little more
effort in like I would have been in a
cooler doper position and I apologize
because I'm interrupting you a fair
amount but if it gets annoying please
let me know I can do last okay I think
at this point I'm getting a sense I
think you your head I mean this is
definitely my fault so I asked you you
know is there something that you want to
change and you said yes but the more
that we talk about it I'm not really
getting the sense that anything in your
life needs to change well I disagree I
am it because I wouldn't I wouldn't be
thinking about it so much if I didn't
care at all right yeah but so then the
question is how much do you care because
if you care as you said just a little
bit what I mean there are a lot of
things that I care about just a little
bit but like why the [ __ ] even bother
right like well maybe a little bit as an
understatement because if I think about
it a nice if I think about it enough and
it's something that fuels my mind and
I'm like I have these like especially
like late at night thoughts where I'm
like what the [ __ ] am i doing tomorrow
I'm gonna wake up and stream a game it's
so [ __ ] pointless for me I'm not good
at games it's just killing time so I
just went online and I bought some
really nice headphones and a microphone
and I'm like [ __ ] this were quarantined
I'll make a whole [ __ ] album while
we're here [ __ ] twitch for a minute you
know I mean like that I could come back
in a week I could come back in two weeks
like you know I have this tug of war in
my mind where I'm just trying to pull
myself away from the stuff that's not
super creative and I'm trying to pull
myself towards the creative side and
that struggle is something that I feel
on a regular basis you what keeps you
away from the creative I think what
keeps me away from it is saying yeah
[ __ ] it what is this like I don't know
man maybe maybe it's like okay think
about this how would you how many
company actually says how many people
we'll talk to you and pitch a really big
idea to you and they're like so excited
about this idea they thought of and how
many people actually go ahead and do
those ideas being a doer and not a Sayer
is the hardest thing in life sure and I
think that's I think that maybe be my
struggle and sometimes I say you know
what I thought of this I'm not gonna be
one of those people who just says I'm
gonna do something and I do it and
sometimes I become a doer and I and and
it pays off because it feels good but I
need to try to win that tug-of-war more
often and be more of a doer and when I
have a thought of creating something
awesome I need to like learn how to be
stronger to win that tug-of-war with
myself I think okay so that I think I
can help you with and sorry for we're
spending so long and kind of getting to
this point because no it's my fault for
being confusing maybe no no yeah I think
you've died I think it's just it's it's
it's complicated right because you're so
content and yet we talk about things a
little bit like you're like I'm a look I
have a little bit of regret but yeah I'm
getting the sense that that there's a
part of me that some of your language
mm-hmm
makes it sound like not a big deal like
literally you'll use phrases like it's a
little bit and like I'd be fine if I was
like working at Popeye's for the rest of
my life I'd be fine if I had this and
those seem like genuine statements to me
they don't seem like they're they're
denial they don't seem to me like their
ego that sounds like you're genuinely
there and also I get the sense from you
that there is some work that is left
undone and I think that there is
actually a part of you that's a little
bit desperate because I think until that
work is done until you actually create
that thing which is not the totem pole
of success in Hollywood but the totem
pole of like your satisfaction with what
you have created and put out into the
world I agree with that except I think
it will never be complete because
there are little bursts it's like a
rollercoaster yeah so I I think I don't
know I don't I don't agree with that I
think it can be complete I think you can
be content and I think that on on your
deathbed yes death is imminent and
looming before you your that cookies
gonna crumble one of two ways
yeah but I I already feel like if I died
today I've done so much and I've I feel
like I feel like I've I use this analogy
already but I feel like anything else is
the icing on the cake I went from being
a high school dropout to having my own
show to being in movies and coming and
touring the world with doing music like
to me that feels pretty dope and if I
die I'm like cool so I got to see a lot
of countries this is exactly what I'm
noticing right so like when I when I any
side of the argument that I take you
take the opposite side so like if I say
that you you're you're a discontent
you say I am content and if I say you
are content then you kind of say like
maybe it's a little bit more than a
little well here's the thing I totally
agreed with whatever you had to say
about getting to a place of being
content but the only argument I have is
it feels like a roller coaster right
because like when I it's not like I
haven't done bigger stuff in the recent
years when I do like I did a cooking
show for advice right that was like cool
and creative and it was my own idea and
that was like the top and then you go
down and then you plateau again and then
you feel that juice you need that you
need that hit again to do something else
what does that hit is that is that an
internal desire to create or is it to
have something successful it's it's
definitely to create but having it be
successful is nice but it's that
internal desire to create something
original and put it out into the world
okay and yeah if nobody sees it it might
feel a little bit like bad but you know
so let's talk about that so oddly enough
I think I think what I liked liked
talk to you about a spirituality okay
any do you have a particular inclination
towards spirituality or religion I think
religion to me is like is just nothing
to me it's like sure I just I look at it
as like naive like my my favorite here
I'll show you a little quote that I
really like that's a to don't know it's
only the madman is absolutely sure and
it's kind of like the people in the
world that are the madmen that are the
crazy people where are the people who
are absolutely sure of something and
it's not just about anything like I'm
absolutely sure I love the color green
it's more about bigger things like about
religion about the universe people that
think they have the thing figured when
it's just such a gamble and it's such a
maybe those are the people that are a
little bit cuckoo for cocoa puffs
so my thing is pretty much this guy
Robert Anton Wilson is pretty dope it's
kind of like maybe two everything sure
so I'd like to then maybe share with you
a hypothesis that I'd love to get your
thoughts on and so let me first of all
let's see if I understand where you are
and where you'd like to go so it sounds
like like I said at the beginning I
think you are generally content and
confident in your capabilities and that
you sometimes have creative impulses and
that you that those creative impulses
can be satisfying or unsatisfying and
that sometimes the the result of your
creation is successful or unsuccessful
but that that is an independent axis
from satisfying or unsatisfying that in
and of itself I think sets you in the 1%
because very few people a lot of like
the people on Twitch for example I mean
I'm not trying to speak down to them I'm
just saying that we're taught by society
that row internal reward and success
should be aligned that internal
rewarding and external success or like
one of the same right that's why this
idea is garbage sure
absolutely and I think that's why people
are suffering because society is garbage
right yeah it's like the promise of a
boomer generation that if you work hard
and you go to school and you get a good
job as an engineer and you buy a house
and you you have two kids that you will
be happy in life right it's the kind of
idea that internal success is a
reflection of external success yeah
because if you need validation from
people that are probably garbage people
like what the [ __ ] does that make you
you have to like learn to love yourself
and if you think you're adult human and
you're cool to people then you should
validate yourself if you know what I
mean like why do I care what people I
don't trust think about me why do I care
what people who are horrible to other
people think about me those people don't
matter they're there like in the [ __ ]
sewers so for people who are curious
this is the difference between ego and
confidence right so the egotistical
person has a value that is determined by
others and the confident person has a
value that is determined by yourself and
I mean Andy is confident so that that
still remains you still have your
problem which is that when after a
certain amount of creative endeavor you
wind up in kind of like this this trough
where you notice it sounds like you have
opportunities to create and maybe get
that production value behind you that
gives you a substance to truly create
what you want to when you're not able to
motivate yourself to be able to like
capitalize on that opportunity and make
a treatment for Netflix or whatever yeah
and sometimes I think I like cook myself
because of like logistics that I get
overwhelmed with like I have a I didn't
have enough space to create stuff so I
got a loft downtown bigger space then I
got a green screen and like little
logistics of like this is not working or
I don't know how to like properly do
this and then like I needed some help so
I got TaskRabbit to fix this once I have
everything aligned to where I could
create something I feel like that's when
I really go for it
like and I
see little successes here and there
where I'm like alright well I want to
make a parody auto-tune song I can't get
auto-tune working so then I just don't
work on it for a week and then I finally
have someone help me or like get
everything tuned to where I could just
go and once I have everything ready to
go that's when I could start creating
stuff and I feel like all right
sometimes I have these little mental
blocks where I feel like I know there's
like there's a hurdle in the way of me
creating something and that kind of gets
discouraging and what's the hurdle the
hurdle could be technical stuff
it could be finding people to be in
certain like sketches it could be you
know okay
money for production yeah I mean it
sounds like you would do you do your
best to work and I mean now I see the
value of production because it sounds
like the stuff that prevents you from
creating is the same stuff that prevents
me from creating which yeah like I do my
best work when I don't have to worry
about configuring any of the platforms
or this or that or you know arrange it
like I like to talk to people and you
create stuff and if I have to manage
green screens and cameras and
microphones Twitch's seen what happens
yeah like when if someone told me all
right Andy you're gonna be working on
this show blah blah blah
for the next two months it's 14 hours a
day you just got to show up I'm there
every day yeah so so I think let me come
back to kind of what I I'm not honestly
Andy I'm not sure how to help you
because I think that I mean I do have
some idea so let me put forth a couple
of things and then you let me know if
this kind of resonates with you or
doesn't resonate with you we can try to
talk further but I don't think that you
have some kind of psychological thing
that's holding you back
basically mm-hmm right so I've been
sniffing around for something like that
a lot of times the people that it can
help or people who have psychological
blocks that get in the way of like them
doing things I doesn't sound like you
really do the only thing that that like
I said and and it doesn't sound like
this is the issue is that you know I
wonder if getting success when you did
if that sort of created in that sense of
potential creates for
you a fear that you're not going to live
up to your potential and that fear
prevents you from putting your best foot
forward but that doesn't sound like it
resonates with you right like you don't
think that that's really an issue fear I
think maybe partially fear of not living
up to my potential definitely resonates
a little bit I feel like definitely isin
AIT's a little bit yeah like like to the
party well I'm just saying like I don't
wake up being like but it's there it's
just not but it's it's there the time
exactly it's very ok it's kind of like
when I when I'm like I when I'm kind of
like men
ok yeah so do something good let me let
me so let me talk okay so let me can I
talk for a little bit yeah sure ok so I
want people to kind of understand this
that generally speaking when we think
about barriers in life I think the
barriers start with the grossest and I
don't mean gross like disgusting I mean
gross is the opposite of subtle and the
better you get at things the more subtle
your barriers become so if we think
about you know someone like a biological
barrier is very gross in terms of it is
very tangible and noticeable so if I
like if I'm trying to get out of bed and
I don't have legs that is very like a
parent and that's maybe a better word
for gross is a parent that's in a parent
problem like if I'm trying to get out of
bed and I lack legs that problem is very
apparent and has like a very apparent
sort of solution right I need to get
legs or maybe I need a prosthetic or a
wheelchair or something like I know a
leg guy by the way from I got you know
so so that's kind of problem number one
is sort of like the biological or
physical then as we kind of go further
like as as you settle your like
biological needs or like physical
problems then we enter the realm of
psychological problems so psychological
problems are like these pent up
oceans are like some scars or like
little traumas or these emotional
weights that sit on our mind and prevent
us from moving forward and and as we
talk to you it sounds like that's there
but it's not that significant for most
of the people that I talk to on stream
that's really where the money is some
people that I talk to on stream like the
psychological stuff actually becomes
sort of irrelevant because their
physical situation or their circumstance
is so bad that like growing as a human
being doesn't [ __ ] matter if you're
you know broke and and like don't have
food and have no place to live like you
know you it's kind of like Maslow's
hierarchy of needs but you know
psychology is ultimately less important
than like basic survival and biology and
then once you get the psychology soft
sort of sort of taken care of and what I
hear from you is that's definitely a
thing a little bit then your your way
forward is actually spirituality so I
want you to think about this for a
second do you know anything about Buddha
Buddha um not that much I mean I do a
little light research sure do you know
what what like what he was in life like
what did the job was know what was his
job so he was a prince so would the woke
up one day and he was respected and he
was powerful and he was loved and he was
wealthy and so he woke up one day sort
of and he kind of in a similar situation
to you it's not that he like lacked
confidence and he wasn't unhappy he had
good days and he had bad days he had
stuff that pissed him off and he had
stuff that that didn't piss him off well
I had a show called the fat Prince so
that makes sense great and and so so
would
woke up one day and he's sort of like
like I want you to think about this if
you miss something in life you think
that that thing will make you happy
right so you have some amount of success
and I think this is the lesson that
you've learned that a lot of people
don't learn is that people who are
trying to make it think that making it
is going to make them happy but what we
hear from you is that sure making it is
nice but what actually makes you happy
is like doing the work itself in
creating
something and even if no one sees the
film like you're so actually kind of
happy and content with that with which
the guy who's trying to make it just
doesn't understand you can explain that
to him and he's just not gonna get it
he's like dude that's crazy like I'm
never gonna be content until I make it
yeah and then people sort of end up
where you are and this is where would
that end up end it up which is that he
had made it right he was wealthy he was
powerful he was respected he was loved
he walked down the street and people
would approach him and be like hey can
you take a look at my script I have this
great idea for a sketch comedy thing and
that's what was in your son can you sign
my papyrus no sorry yeah exactly
can you sign my papyrus right can I can
I can I can I have a dirt drawing of me
and you can we get a dirt drawing selfie
can you tear my tits oh hey that's -
yeah absolutely right and then I woke up
and he was unsatisfied and then he's
kind of screwed right because there's
nothing to move towards like there's
nothing there's no where to go from
there and so this is when he sort of
realized he's like oh I'm actually kind
of [ __ ] because if I kind of have
everything and everyone around me says
that like to be happy you have to have
stuff and I have stuff then what do I do
and so I think that's kind of where you
are and so I think your way forward is
through actually through spirituality
and what I mean by that very and in your
case there's a particular flavor of
spirituality and when I talk to you I'd
like to talk to you about for a few
minutes as manifestation so in this
world we have intentions and we have
energy but oftentimes we're not able to
manifest right so like you want to write
this thing for Netflix but you lack the
energy to write this thing for Netflix
and there are other times where you wake
up and you want to do something but
you're not quite sure like what to do so
you have the energy and you kind of
mentioned that you attempted to like get
on the YouTube bandwagon with like Paul
Logan or Logan Paul earth and Joe
Rogan's or whoever whoever those be bit
right so like you have the energy and
you tried to create something and it
kind of fell flat and so the question is
like why do things fall flat when you do
them or why is it that
when you want to do something cuz like
when you want to do something it's not
gonna fall flat like you have this
creative drive but you're not able to
capitalize it and other times you're
able to capitalize on something but the
creative drive is not there so it falls
flat does that make sense yeah that
makes less sense and so some people may
think oh like the YouTube thing didn't
work out because sometimes things don't
work out that is a stupid mentality to
me I think as a scientist if something
doesn't work out you should be able to
investigate why things didn't work out
and the one thing that I would have
cautioned you to accept is that
sometimes things in Hollywood don't work
out and disappointment is a part of the
equation most times and I would
encourage you to step away from that
because it's not just that randomly
things become disappointed you didn't
just randomly fail at YouTube like there
is a reason why and and this is where
you're entitled to disagree with this
and I think this kind of thinking
doesn't work for 99% of people but I
want you to start thinking about your
successes and failures as attributable
to you and that you have a hand in that
right like the product that you put out
on YouTube the kind of acting that you
do is in some degree like dependent on
you you have agency in that and you
can't control what execs think I'm not
talking about that I agree with you for
pretty much any creative project except
YouTube YouTube's algorithm and the type
of stuff that gets popular and the fan
base and how it gets eyes
I don't attribute to myself but any
other thing I mean besides YouTube I
agree obviously I think that you know
you can't control exact so you can't
control YouTube's algorithm like in a
sense like what I'm saying is completely
wrong what I want you to think about
though is like this idea of
manifestation so you have this idea in
your head of something that you want to
see in the world that is manifestation
and according to Yogi's from ancient
india in order to manifest you need a
union of two things you need a union of
intention and a union of energy you need
to combine intention with energy and
when I listen to you it sounds like
things don't go well you are lacking one
of those two things so like when you
think about creating something for
Netflix you have this idea of what you
want to create but the energy isn't
behind it and sometimes when the energy
is behind something you still are not
able to manifest and that may be because
of a YouTube algorithm fine but that
there's like like you can have energy
without direction and then like you're
not able to create do you think the past
failures and the past effort I put into
stuff where you know and there's a lot
of them and I know it's a normal thing
but do you think those past failures
just once you like it's like when you're
the first time you're motivated to climb
that mountain you feels good feel strong
then you fail and then you try a second
time and then you try a third time and a
fourth time by the fifth time like it's
not the same as the first time you're
not kind of like yeah let's get up this
[ __ ] I'm gonna get there you know I
mean absolutely which is why what I'm
telling you Andy I haven't used the word
motivation yeah in my first part of the
solution I'm not talking about
motivation because you're spot-on
because the human brain is gonna learn
if I you know if I walk out to my
balcony and I drop an egg off the
balcony and it crashes to the ground and
breaks and then I do that five more
times my brain is gonna start to expect
that if I drop an egg it's gonna break
yeah if you pull yourself up by your
bootstraps dig deep and find your
motivation and give it your best
and those execs say no thank you after a
three-day pilot the second time you you
get on that roadie like you go to that
rodeo and you get that bull and then
like you learned that lesson again and
you learn that lesson again and you
learn that lesson again you think you
lack motivation you don't lack
motivation your problem is that you're
smart your problem is that you have made
observations in the real world and those
observations have taught you that
disappointment is a probability and as
long as you're talking to suits they're
not going to get behind your ideas yeah
I even had a pilot and
[ __ ] Jimmy Kimmel signed on as a
producer he's the guy who discovered me
by the way but Jimmy Kimmel signed on as
a producer we got him
he's a busy guy we got him to be in a
sketch to pitch it even even that
they're like nah and I'm just like when
you when you see like when you see like
[ __ ] that just seemed so ripe and so
perfect and it's just like nah
yeah socially so that is gonna
absolutely kill your motivation which is
why I think no way forward is to abandon
motivation entirely okay your way for it
is to recognize that motivation is not
something that you can create like you
can get inspired that sounds like
motivation but what I'm that's why I'm
using the words intention energy and
manifestation mm-hmm so once you have an
intention I think you should and this is
gonna sound so simple but like yeah let
me just say this and then you let me
know if this makes any sense or it's
simple or it has no value to you I don't
want you to think about motivation I
want you to think about your intention
what is it that you want to create and
how do you put energy behind it mm-hmm
and if you can align those two things I
think it will become manifest motivation
is not an issue here disappointment is
not an issue here execs are not an issue
here YouTube is not an issue here it is
about clarifying in your mind what is it
that I want to create and then aligning
your energy to create that thing because
every time a hurdle arises and you don't
have a green screen and you don't have
this and you don't have that that is
gonna impact your motivation if you're
playing the game of motivation because
you have this idea in your head and then
like it doesn't sort of turn out in that
way and then like since it's not turning
out since your Fant you have this idea
that is actually like a fantasy and
since the fantasy is not playing out the
way oh this [ __ ] is hard I need a green
screen this camera is not working this
is not working it impedes your
motivation mm-hmm and instead what I
want you to have is don't look at the
end and what you want to create look at
sit where you are and look in the
direction that you want to go and pack
Enter
into that forward process it sounds a
lot like motivation though that's the
only problem it does sound a lot like
motivation right so I think like so let
me put it to you this way sometimes you
get motivated to create something that
you envision in the end mm-hmm right
and if you're motivated to create this
thing in the end what happens with
setbacks what does that do to your
motivation it diminishes it absolutely
so what I'm talking so there's a
difference between looking at the top of
the mountain and starting to climb and
things getting in the way and being
where you are and focusing on taking the
next step yeah I feel like I could do
that with stuff that I do on my own that
doesn't rely on anyone else but me I
feel like that advice is actually good
advice first stuff that only involves me
which is fine cuz I could create a lot
of [ __ ] on my own but when it comes to
involving other people then there's
other variables that I feel like are out
of the picture yes and that is exactly
your problem is because you use a
different strategy when other people are
involved that prevents you from doing
your best work right that's exactly the
problem is that when it's on your own
you can actually put forth your you're
your perfect creative energy and when
other people get involved something in
your mind changes that prevents you from
doing solo work so what I want you to do
is don't stop doing solo work I want you
to do solo work in spite of people yeah
I mean I I get that I feel like I feel
like solo work is is definitely more of
my ticket because I don't need to rely
on other people why didn't you write the
thing for Netflix
probably because of thinking about my
probabilities and thinking about how
many times I went into a meeting and
just led to nothing and then your
manager hooks you up but general
meetings in that equation there is an v+
net flix equals manifest option right
but that's exactly my point is that what
you should have done is say [ __ ] all
that I'm gonna just make this thing and
if Netflix wants to get on board they
can get on board if I have to sit in
meetings I have to sit in meetings but
I'm not going to your factoring Netflix
into the equation which kills your
productivity so what you need to do is
factor them out of the equation and be
idiotic be perfectly idiotic I'm good at
being an idiot absolutely and just
create whatever weird [ __ ] is in your
head and don't worry about the rest of
them factor them out of the equation and
then show up and just pitch whatever
crazy stupid thing you want and then
they're like okay we want to come back
and then you recognize these are just
the idiots and you're gonna do your
thing you're not gonna try to cater to
them you're just going to do your thing
and let them be stupid and you're not
gonna start playing a multiplayer game
you need to treat them like NPCs instead
of party members yeah because your
problem is that when you play a
single-player game you do a fantastic
job when you play a multiplayer game you
stop producing yeah it's funny because
the very biggest and first thing that I
did was single-player my own idiotic my
own idiocy my own [ __ ] idiotic weird
rants and sketches and songs and it was
so cringy basic-cable weird and that's
what MTV wanted but nowadays in 2020
that level of energy that I put out you
know do they want that you know I mean I
don't know if they want that if I go get
like say say I go get an independent
budget of 50,000 and I go create
something that looks like something in
their wheelhouse and I put my
energy into that which that's realistic
too then maybe they'd want it but I have
to be a realistic into thinking what
they're actually gonna get if I'm just
like a hundred percent me [ __ ] everybody
this is like this all weird ball of
crazy Netflix just because it has raw
energy it's not gonna be like yeah let's
let's say or this let's give this guy
I'm with you a hundred percent I mean
right I'm with you a hundred percent and
I think it is actually irrelevant to
what I'm saying
right so so I want you to think about
this for a second when you're playing a
game whether you have party members or
NPCs you have to account for them mm-hmm
right but those are fundamentally
different things okay
like you have to account for them but
what I'm saying is that like you should
you should create so you do your best
work I think when you're solo playing
and and you are telling me that the more
that you account for them what does it
do to your productivity well a lot of
times it stops it because I have to like
cater to them and appeal to them if I
want it to be something bigger right
and so like what's your problem right
your problem is that you're not able to
produce yeah and the more that you cater
for them what happens to your
productivity goes down absolutely and so
you're saying but if I just am an
unfettered ball of absolute crazy
they're gonna be like that's not for us
although if we really listened to what
you said a few minutes ago that seems to
be the thing that actually got you
successful in the first place it was a
different time then I mean fine no so I
do not I would not worry about I would
try to shift away from them so even if
we don't want to go a hundred percent
ball of crazy I think you've got a real
all of crazy and then learn like don't
try to give them what they want
mm-hmm dress up what you want to give
them mm-hmm and I think that's the big
difference
does that make sense yeah that's like a
difference between an NPC and a party
member and also I've been thinking about
this a lot if I put in 100
an energy to my next crazy thing it
doesn't matter if they want it
ultimately if someone wants it that's
cool if no one wants it as long as I'm
creating dope stuff that's new and
original that feels good then you know
then I'm chilling absolutely yeah
right so like now we're both saying the
same thing and I've been gearing up for
that I mean I literally am a B&B
I bought gaming chairs I bought desks I
bought a new microphone I bought a new
headphones like just so I could create
[ __ ] while I'm here good like so the
last thing a little bit of a concrete
tip that is going to satisfy the part of
you that wants to be successful okay
mm-hmm so you're kind of saying like I
can't just be an unfettered ball of
crazy so be it you can't be an under
federal of crazy fine you have to
consider what the Netflix execs want
fine so this is where I want to talk to
you about triage do you know what triage
means until I get through some so like
so in medicine sorry was you know I'm
just so in medicine we do this thing
where we triage right so we take like
five people and we try to figure out
who's the sickest mm-hmm who's the
sickest and what kind of resources do
they need and like who's the second
sickest and who's the third sickest
who's the fourth sickest
so here's the thing Andy you're a
creative guy so you're gonna have a
bunch of ideas right how do you decide
which idea to pursue something that
feels polarizing to me okay so I want
you to take like five of your polarizing
ideas and then try to figure out which
one feels true to me which one is
actually a solo player game but also out
of these five things which one do I
think I could sell the best and Netflix
yeah that's easy for me to do because I
take the insanity first and then I
chisel away beautiful of it and then I
make it I basically what what it needs
is here's the crazy here's the raw and
then it needs
skeleton absolutely you have a skeleton
and a through-line you could throw that
crazy crazy on and then you could have a
show out of it
absolutely so Andy I think this is what
you've got to do man
and I think I I mean to me it sounds
weird that you're not already doing this
but it's out somewhere in the way I
think you got mixed up with worrying
about productivity and giving them what
they want and that killed your
inspiration that killed your creativity
and you weren't able to manifest and I
think all it is it's not about really
changing anything it's just about
changing the way you look at things and
I think it's like really tap into that
crazy but understand that in your head
no matter how even if you try to give
Netflix a hundred percent unfettered
crazy understand that the the safeguards
on that crazy are gonna be the business
sense that you have to have in order to
be as successful as you are and you'll
tweak things and tune things but don't
try to give them what they want try to
give them what you want and then you'll
figure out how to put the skeleton on
there like that's beautiful right like
you know how to do that you don't need
to worry about them rejecting your
absolute crazy because you're never
gonna give them absolutely crazy but you
know side of that put the gelatin on it
and then go ahead sorry yeah I was just
gonna say look I see how safe certain
content could be where it just all kind
of seems the same and I want to shake
that up you know I feel like a lot of
shows are colored by number and they're
kind of like that goes there that goes
there that goes there
I want the craziness because the
craziness is me trying to make something
original and different because there's
value in that it's not oh there's not
always value the value is not always
seen by executives but I think the value
is there and it's strong because it's
different from what other yep so this is
a beautiful way to reframe right so the
question isn't about giving them what
they want
it's about finding people those rare
souls who will see the value like I have
to think so you have you seen Tiger King
yes so I like Tiger King is a beautiful
example of everything that you're
talking about yeah that's right so if I
go to
go ahead no it's gonna say it's like gum
o come o ask what is that
that's a harmony Korean film okay I
don't know he he basically had like he
basically took people off like some
Jerry Springer show that were addicted
to huffing and they they're like you're
the actors of this movie now go drown
some cats and ghosts go sell the cats to
a Chinese restaurant right so like it's
crazy man so I think I think you gotta
tap into that crazy cuz I think that
like if you really look at the things
that move forward the entertainment
industry they're not the safe bet
they're not the things that long execs
want
it's the polarizing [ __ ] absolute I've
always a lot of people are like what you
know what kind of stuff do you want to
do and even early on even though I was
doing [ __ ] that sometimes would make
people laugh to me the bigger pop was
people saying what the [ __ ] did I just
watch to me that's more value back
saying that is what I say to myself five
times per episode of tire tire King
exactly right so like I just I cannot
like what I love about the show is that
it has created thoughts in my head that
I have never had before
and do you want to sleep with Carroll
Bosque and that's the real question I
have for you I do not you should ask me
if I want to sleep with y'all exotic
though that's the better question right
I mean that I already knew the answer to
that's a big yes that's why I asked you
Carroll but but I I think exactly right
so I think Andy here's the thing so the
last thing kind of a little spiritual
nugget that'll leave you with is
understand that so I'm gonna try to
recap so I think your your problem for
lack of a better word is that you know
you have so you want to create something
substantive and you recognize that you
have to get big people behind you and
you need production value so be it it's
not egotistical we sort of sorted
through that it's because you are an
artist and you want to create like you
want to create a Sistine Chapel and
that's not like a five by five canvas
right like not want to paint something
that is human something like this on the
wall absolutely that's what you want so
be it it's not egotistical it's your
calling it is your Tata my it is your
duty it is what you need to do it is
what you were put on this earth to do
you were put on this earth to offer
polarizing things that wake people up in
the in the in a world of mass market you
know algorithmic [ __ ] that is
dopaminergic and soulless yeah where our
Messiah you have to understand that deep
within your Andy that this polarizing
thing is what we need and we see
evidence of that it's how you got your
success it's why Tiger King is
successful right what execs want is they
want adaptations of existing formulas
that work they don't know if someone
walks in and says I have a show for you
that's about a homosexual zoo owner who
is engaged in a polygamous relationship
with two straight men are you talking
about me or Tiger King I'm talking about
you okay Andy Milonakis the life story a
wrap on the haters so like the execs are
gonna be like you're crazy man and then
one person is gonna say you don't like
what they're gonna say is like we want
version 2.0 of homeland you want the
next homeland that's what they're gonna
say but then like some of them and I
love this I love because there are execs
out there who are like not like this and
I love them because some of them bro
like yeah let's make something
absolutely crazy let's do it you know
right you have people it's not that hard
for them to do that because if you look
in history and you see a lot of crazy
shocking big things like yeah there's
the safe play which is like they're
dating reality shows that you've seen a
million times and then there's the one
offs that are like boom yeah that our
defining moments and like TV absolutely
but if you think about it from the
perspective and executive of an
executive the probability of success
from a safe show is way higher than like
the probability of success from a
polarizing big risk big reward
absolutely right and that's not that's
not how execs get their job they get
their a job by reliable results yeah and
but just going back to you so I think
you've got to be that polarizing
influencer and then you got to
understand that like when you like don't
let that stop you from going
Netflix understand that like you need to
be the Messiah for Netflix like that's
what you've got to be and you got to go
there and when you present your idea if
they toss it out the window so be it
that was and this is the spiritual
nugget that was not your Sistine Chapel
yeah that was you leveling up to make
the next Sistine Chapel and there are
circumstances there is garma and garma
will decide whether that beautiful work
that you create becomes famous and is
shown on 200 screens or never gets shown
at all but your job is to create it's
not to make things successful yeah sure
and as long as you orient towards that I
think you will continue creating and I
think you'll you're gonna be successful
because I've I've tried to help people
do this and I get I've seen this
reliably time and time and time again
when successful people start to play it
safe and they stop listening to their
calling when they start focusing on
their career and stop focusing I mean
when they start when they focus on their
career and ignore their calling they end
up not only failing but they feel empty
yeah and I said I feel that twitch to
twitch is kind of me playing it safe a
little bit yeah
so which doesn't mean you have to quit
it just means that you shouldn't start
listening to your calling again and
don't worry about your career yeah
thoughts questions no it makes it it
makes a lot of sense honestly like the
one thing that's holding me back with
twitch is how much time you have to
stream for